# Project2018 - Programming and Scripting

# Project Overview:
The Project plan is presented in Microsoft Project as this a software that is ideally suited to creating project plans and highlighting critical paths. Supporting the plan is a Gantt chart as a graphical aid. In addition, the plan is attached in MS Excel and the Gantt chart is attached as an image file in the event that the MS Project file cannot be opened and viewed. 
The project plan defines the project in detail. It establishes schedule, deliverables and scope and ensures that all risks are identified and prioritised in a timely manner to ensure milestones are achieved.
Research, investigation and summary of findings are all presented within this Readme file.
Supporting python code and relevant instructions for using this file(s) is uploaded to this respository in the format of .py files.  

# Research and Investigation into Fisher's Iris Data Set:
Introduced by Ronald Fisher in a 1936 paper titled 'The use of multiple measurements in taxonomic problems', it is an example of linear discriminant analysis. The data set itself is a mutivariate data set, that is to say it contains two or more variable quantities. Specificially it contains data of three Iris flower species. They are Setosa, Versicolor and Virginica. Four geometric features were recorded from the three species and 50 samples of each were gathered. They were Petal Length, Petal Width, Sepal Length and Sepal Width. Linear discriminant analysis is a statistical method used for classification and pattern recognition (to distribute things into groups, classes and categories). Today it is commonly used in applications such as machine learning.
Linear discriminant analysis is a tranformation technique and a way to reduce dimensionality (Euclidean Space). Feature sets of data can be transformed onto the same axis (or dimension -1) for better separation as opposed to trying to interrogate a scatterplot of features sets on an XY plane/graph. In this, LDA attempts to seperate the means of the distributions of datasets as much as possible while maintaining the smallest spread or variance possible of each dataset (Fisher's ratio). In terms of machine learning, if there were hundreds of features sets then applying a technique like this can greatly reduce computational time. 

The dataset is sometimes referred to as Anderson's Iris Data Set because it was Edgar Anderson who collected the data to quantify the morphologic variation (variation in form, size, colour etc.) in the species. Perhaps today this might be done through DNA.
Research notes that the data was collected using the same apparatus on the same day by the same person and measured at the same time but no data is available on the method used to take the the data. It suggests that less variation in data gathering would be present based on the fact that it was the same person, same apparatus, same day etc. but the method of how they were picked, how the samples were inspected, what they were inspected with and was accuracy and resolution correctly considered is not documented. It does open the question as how close the actual values recorded are to the conventional true values and perhaps how repeatable the method of gathering the data was. If any method is being used to catergorise and classify, the data being used should be of sufficient quality.   
